# Determination-of-a-Statistically-Reliable-Methodology-to-Measure-the-Bicycle-Network-Connectivity-


# Md Mintu Miah1*, Nicholas Fournier2, Alexander Skabardonis3
# *Postdoctoral Researcher, SafeTREC and PATH, University of California Berkeley, 310 Mclaughlin Hall, Berkeley, CA 94720; Corresponding Email: mmmiah@berkeley.edu; ORCID: 0000-0001-6073-3896
# Planner and Engineer, Resource Systems Group, Inc; Email: nichfournier@gmail.com; ORCID: 0000-0002-4722-4138
# Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, University of California Berkeley, 320 Mclaughlin Hall, Berkeley, CA 94720; Email: dromeas@berkeley.edu, ORCID: 0000-0002-7064-5993
# ABSTRACT
While bicyclists can legally use most streets, rarely are streets accommodating to bicyclists with adequate infrastructure or other traffic countermeasures. Often, there is a sparse patchwork of isolated bicycle “friendly” streets in an urban network, severely limiting potential bicycle ridership across the network. Current industry standard tools for evaluating bicycle level of service are generally microscopic in approach, focusing on individual intersections or segments. There is a need to equip practitioners with a tool and methodology to evaluate an entire bicycle network effectiveness that is generalizable across different locations. This research aims to resolve that by combining mathematical functions from graph theory with knowledge regarding general preferences and behavior of bicyclists into a methodology for measuring bicycle network effectiveness in a study area. The study tested simple to advanced graph theories and ranked the algorithms to measure network connectivity. The analysis indicates that the proposed weighted shortest path graph algorithms: Low-stress network connectivity (LSNC), and bicycle network connectivity (BNC) algorithms provide a solid understanding of the connectivity compared to existing simple and advanced graph theories. We terminate the algorithms within 3 miles from each source node to target nodes to make the algorithms economic. We presented node connectivity by taking the median connectivity score for each census tract. We classified network connectivity into five grades (poor, fair, well, very well, and excellent) based on the connectivity score threshold. To test the algorithms, this study used Bay Area counties, Davis, Sacramento, and Hayward cities OpenStreetMap from California. Most Bay counties are poorly connected through designated bicycle facilities and do not have a continuous connection with bicycle facilities. However, the Bay area’s low-stress networks are somewhat better connected than the bike network.  Davis City is excellently connected (connectivity score>1.0) with either Bicycle or low-stress facilities. The developed methods/tool will help planners, engineers, and policymakers with the ability to efficiently evaluate bicycle networks.

 # Keywords: Connectivity, Bicycle, Network, Graph, Level of Traffic Stress, Slope, and Shortest Path
